[Music]
hi there my name is John fish and I'm a
Harvard student I'm a freshman studying
computer science and this video is going
to be a day in my life and the first
thing we're doing today it's about 7:30
a.m. I'm gonna go grab some breakfast
so Annenberg is is Harvard freshman
Danny Boy
honestly it's like something out of
Harry Orin look okay it's now it's now
8:15 8:15 a.m. and my first class begins
at 9:00 so I have like 45 minutes
I do have homework for that class that I
haven't done yet just like a little bit
like a page so I'm gonna do that it's
Swedish and then the other thing that I
like to do with my mornings is just plan
out my day so I have a growth book is
what I call this like a little daily
planner agenda where I write over my
schedule for the day my goals my
motivation stuff like that so I'm gonna
do that and I'm gonna do my homework and
then we'll get to class all right so
just walking you through kind of what my
scheduling might look like for a day
this is my schedule for the day you know
wake up do some homework go to Swedish
go to math have some lunch go to lecture
for my CS course today it's a guest
lecture which should be cool that I work
out due to some dinner go to work and
then go to bed hopefully like 10:00 p.m.
that's the goal that's one of my goals
for today is to hit nine hours of sleep
I've already meditated which is great I
want to read around 50 pages of my book
throughout the day and then of course I
want to film this video so this is a
daily planner that
I have personally designed and that I'm
actually making I actually just had a
company produce a bunch of them and
they're going to be shipped to Amazon
hopefully within the next month and
they'll be available on Amazon Prime and
stuff like that and so if you want to
buy one I definitely recommend signing
up for my newsletter the link for that
is in my description and you'll be able
to pick up one of these when they can go
and check out the cover on that bad boy
look at that
mmm ooh embossed logo okay I should do
[Music]
alright so off to Swedish now it's
actually like 902 but I'm gonna be on
time because one of the interesting
things about how Harvard class work is
that they all start on Harvard time
which is seven minutes past the hour or
seven minutes past when the class is
supposed to start so I'll be there on
time even though I'll probably get there
like 906 there's Widener Library by the
way it's that it's a pretty cool library
[Music]
alright so that was in our Swedish is
now 10:00 a.m. I'm headed off to linear
algebra it's across campus I'm gonna
kinda have to rush to get there in seven
minutes but usually I'm able to do it in
like six or seven
[Music]
so many tourists all right rolling back
from lunch now I've got an hour for my
class which is a guest lecture at the
computer science course which is what
the title of this video is a computer
science student that's me and so yeah
I'm gonna kill some time maybe start an
essay maybe we're kind of problem sets
maybe edit a video I got a lot of things
on my to-do list so the lecture today is
for my functional programming class it's
called cs50 one and it's a guest lecture
which is kind of cool
he's from Jane Street which is like an
investment firm I believe in the use of
camel which is like one of the only
actual firms in the world or companies
that uses the language which is the
language that we use it's a functional
programming language so I'm really
interested to hear I don't even know
what the like she's gonna be on but I'm
just I've heard that it's supposed to be
one of the best lectures of the year for
the course so I'll actually give this
one in person just gonna head over there
in like 50 minutes and in the meantime
probably going to edit a video
[Music]
very very cool lecture and not just
because they gave us free shirts
although that was cool too thanks Jane
Street but just a cool lecture yeah I
thought it was actually pretty
insightful in terms of just like cool
like programming practices that he gave
us things like how to write code that
literally you can't express errors which
I thought was a very interesting concept
the idea being like you need to design
your types so Oh camel is a is a typed
language and when you're designing your
custom types doing so in a way that is
literally impossible to write invalid or
to write an invalid state in the
examples that I gave with that were
we're really interesting so now the next
thing that I have to do I have to go
work out and I'm not allowed to talk
about that on camera on my youtube
channel so instead you're just some
cinematic shots that I took of Harvard
and its surrounding area I'm working out
time to go grab a bite to eat for dinner
and then attempt to grind for a little
bit okay so it's now 7:20 p.m. and I've
got a bunch of work to do so what I'm
going to be working on right now is I've
got a an essay that I need to be writing
for tomorrow just like a little rough
draft I don't even think it's due until
tomorrow at midnight and I'm gonna be
starting at psets I have nothing really
due tomorrow which is great but I'm just
gonna be be working on a bunch of
different things okay so the essay that
I'm writing it's it's a literature
review that is based off of this book
flow by Holly
a lie I think that save saved last name
but correct me if I'm wrong the
fundamental premise of the book is how
do you find happiness in a world where
we really struggle to do that it seems
like everyone wants to be happy
right but over the years that we've
progressed we haven't really become that
much happier as people and so the
question is well what does make you
happy and in flow that question is
answered with the idea of meaningful
work that is if you have a task that
fulfills mm Sigma Holly breaks it down
into eight different things
eight different categories that have
task fits and then it's a it's a low
activity and semion flow so you can
apply this to anything and chick Mohali
apply that to an entire life saying that
if you create one goal for your entire
life
and then you structure your life around
that it with goals and with sub goals
and so on then you can have one life
that is just a flow experience and
therefore it will be an enjoyable
experience and a happy experience now
what I'm looking at my essay is how do
you apply that the student to the
education system because I believe that
the education system is well it's pretty
messed up to be honest I feel like a lot
of students are miserable and that that
shouldn't be the case like school should
be an enjoyable experience it should be
fun and I think that you can make it fun
and I think that there's a way to do
that with flow so I'm gonna go write my
essay and then once I've written my
essay there will be a video and a
component to it that's actually part of
the course which is really cool we go to
one of the studios on campus and we fill
my mini TED talk so if you're interested
I'll upload that video to this channel
so if you're not subscribed definitely
subscribe because well hopefully it'll
be a useful video essay for you and if
not I upload video essays every week so
I'm sure there will be something in
there that you find useful anyways I'm
gonna go write this essay okay the
essays it's going pretty well I have
been writing for about an hour
I am I'm getting a little tired though
so I'm gonna change gears I'm gonna do
some math for a bit because I've got a
problem set due in a couple days so I'm
going to do a little bit of linear
algebra for your series for year for
years I'm gonna
some some linear algebra now another
thing that I can imagine a lot of people
are wondering is that for a computer
science student I didn't do a whole lot
of coding today and that's actually true
and it's kind of a factor of Harvard
being a liberal arts school so the
courses that I'm taking our Swedish
expose which is a writing course linear
algebra and cs50 one that's it there's
just four courses and if you're coming
from a technical college background like
me coming from Canada where pretty much
every school is a technical college and
you take like eight courses a semester
and they're all pretty much given to you
yeah it'd be kind of ridiculous to be
taking a course like Swedish or to be
taking our writing course but I kind of
love it because yes programming is fun
but I think that overall the point of
school is to make you develop as a
person like you're you're trying to make
people that are better members of
society and I don't think that becoming
only a better coder will make you a
better person necessarily I think that
there's so much more life than that so
it's like 9 o'clock
well 905 and I'm going to start reading
and brushing my teeth and getting ready
for bed cuz I try and be in bed for 10
o'clock because matter of the sleep
waking up at 7:00 just gotta go to bed
early but before I head to bed I'd like
to talk to you about the sponsor of this
video as a computer science student
sometimes listening to the lectures
isn't enough for me to understand the
things that I'm trying to learn to
actually understand a concept I have to
reinforce that's being taught by doing
problems and that's why I love the
sponsor of this video brilliant
brilliant has a wide variety of
interesting math and science problems
and courses that can help you to both
reinforce what you're learning and to
learn new things for example when my
cs50 one class went over red black
binary trees I was able to work through
the course that brilliant has on them to
clear up my confusion from the lecture
and best of all when I got problems
wrong I was able to look at a detailed
solution and understand what went wrong
in my thought process and then fix it
then when it actually came to
implementing a red black tree I didn't
have to go
searching through all sorts of reference
materials brilliant had taught me all of
the concepts that I needed to know it's
genuinely a really effective system so
if you're interested in signing up for
brilliant work check out the link in my
description to sign up for free and also
the first two hundred of my viewers that
decide to upgrade will actually get 20%
off their premium annual plan
there's no it is no 10 p.m. so I'm gonna
head to bed because I'm getting up at 7
tomorrow and one of my goals for the day
was to hit nine hours of sleep yeah
pretty pretty uneventful day pretty
average day I hope that you enjoyed this
video of a day in my life I hope that
you got to see a little bit of insight
into what it is to be a student and
freshman year at Harvard and yeah thank
you so much for watching I will see in
the next video don't forget to subscribe
if you haven't already because I make
videos every week sometimes probably
more okay
[Music]